# Radioactive Decay Simulator

A simulator for radioactive decay to be used in physics class.

## Getting Started

To quickly start using the software on a windows machine, download the following archive onto your personal computer: [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B8DQ11iwBOQLbjdJS2FibHlHNDA/view?usp=sharing). 
Once the download is complete, unzip the files and simply double click the "Radioactive Decay Simulator.exe" file in the main directory.

If you want to contribute to the project I suggest you clone the "electron" folder. You can then run the software by following the instructions in the Development section.

### How it works

To use the software simply enter the starting number of nuclei and then either press the button next to the text field or the Enter key. Scroll down to see the results. Press Enter to request different results. 

The results are based on preudo-random numbers generated by the Math.random() function in JavaScript and on the formula for radioactive decay. 

### Prerequisites

There are no prerequisites to run the software on a Windows machine. This version of the software doesn't support MacOS and Linux for the purpose of speeding up development. 

### Development

If you want to improve on the project you will need to install node.js and a suitable code editor such as Visual Studio Code. 
 
To run the project with node.js and npm, navigate to the "app" folder using a terminal and type:
```
npm start
```

## Motivation

This software was written to make physics experiments around the law for radioactive decay more accessible to physics teachers and students who may not otherwise have the means to carry them out at school. 

## Built With

* [Electron](https://electron.atom.io)

## Version

Current version is 0.1. (05.2017)

Future versions will include:
* Code improvements in both formatting and algorithms
* Easy export to excel and .csv
* Automatic graph generation and PDF export
* Improved documentation

I encourage teachers and students to contribute to this software and make it more useful. Hopefully it will be used in classrooms around the world. 

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE) file for details

## Acknowledgments

* My physics teacher, Ms Ralitsa Ranchova, for supporting and encouraging me in pursuing my interests. 
